Rolling Thunder the ultra challenging
1986 arcade game from Namco and Atari
inserts quarter output fun if getting
your ass kicked is your idea of fun
which it is because this game is fun but
it will also kick your ass and take your
money
Rolling Thunder hails from that time
when our cave games we're making the
shift from classics like space invaders
and pac-man to adventure games more
commonly associated with consoles it's
the kind of game that you need to
memorize in order to defeat which of
course requires a lot of quarters in
fact you can continue and it even saves
your score going forward but the thing
is rolling thunder' is super cool and
the colourful hooded bad guys cool music
and clever level design made it worthy
to spend your week's allowance on that
and you're saving a beautiful damsel in
distress you and your brown slacks can't
let her down
when I was a kid I used to play Rolling
Thunder at a local department store
called Hills anyone remember Hills it's
now a Walmart and before that it wasn't
Ames but back in the day it was a Hills
and since I've always been a huge James
Bond fan I was immediately drawn to
Rolling Thunder which also has a super
cool man
I liked this game so much that in grade
school I would draw the little hooded
guys in my notebooks and make them all
different colors and stuff I think I
told that story in the Rolling Thunder
review for the NES anyway when I was
picking up some arcade games for the
classic game room intergalactic space
arcade I had the option to pick up a
rolling thunder' and a really good price
so I did I feel like Rolling Thunder is
part of me becoming Who I am because I
spent a lot of quarters on this game
back in the day maybe the same one but
probably not the objective in Rolling
Thunder is simple to get through the
levels as quickly as possible
without dying that sounds a lot easier
than it actually is though primarily
because even though your guy is a super
spy he's had a horrible shoulder injury
and can't shoot up or jump and fire at
the same time which makes eliminating
the wealth of bad guys who will swarm
you in this game quite challenging
fortunately he can jump the enemies are
idiots and he looks great in brown
slacks and red shoes Pittsburgh the key
to winning Rolling Thunder is memorizing
Rolling Thunder bring it cat while the
enemies don't do the exact same things
every single time you play the game
they're in more or less the same
positions all the time has to be long
and it's kind of essential to fire ahead
knowing that bad guys will be there in
order to speed your progress through the
level
Rolling Thunder leaves no margin for
error you need to memorize and play the
levels quickly we've got cats we've got
gnomes we have lava monsters and bat
people all of whom want to destroy you
and your brown slacks from Hills which
is where I assume he got them the
Rolling Thunder arcade machine itself is
a fairly average looking game it doesn't
light up for anything in the screen
position is kind of awkward because of
the grille and speaker placement below
it but it does offer a nice place to put
your quarters as you can see I did not
have this machine converted to free play
so I continue to spend my quarters on it
except this time I have the key to open
it and get them back during gameplay you
may notice that occasionally I'll run
out of bullets which is a no-no in this
game by the way at which point it turns
your last bullet into a slow bullet it's
just merciless let's take a look at the
arcade cabinet which would have been
published by Atari back in the day that
has some cool artwork on the control
panel there's only two buttons actually
four because Rolling Thunder has jump
and shoot buttons on both sides of the
joystick and while it's kind of hard to
make out the joystick actually says
Atari and has the logo I rather enjoy
the side art on Rolling Thunder which
has that made 80's anime style scene in
old-school series like a go-go 13 and
Robotech
but most importantly as you can see
Rolling Thunder has some good company
here in the intergalactic space arcade I
think that Rolling Thunder is best
enjoyed on the arcade machine with the
joystick and buttons but the fact is
it's also great on the Nintendo these
side-scrolling adventure games made the
transition to 8-bit and 16-bit consoles
better than most of the early 80s arcade
games like centipede or Robotron as you
can see I haven't made any modifications
to this game it's still got the original
screen and controls and plays well it's
rolling thunder' which could have easily
been called that guy with brown slacks
and a red turtleneck you can't fire up